Net worth, also referred to as
Equity in English, has a primary role
in the analysis of the corporate or personal balance sheet.
When net worth
begins to decline within
a company we have the first
alarm bell towards the decline of a company.  this is why it
deserves a lot of attention
[Music]
net worth is a bit like the
money that remains in your pocket after
paying all your bills to
calculate it you have to make the difference between
what you have gross assets and what
you owe debts in the assets  gross there
are all the valuable things that
a company owns for example money
in the bank account what customers
owe the company things in warehouse
and larger and more durable items like
cars then subtract everything
you have to pay as debts  and taxes to what
you have the result is the
net worth i.e. the treasure of a company the
resources it can use when it
needs them to support its activities
Imagine that there are two people who
want to open a restaurant one of
them has an old house  country house to
renovate and the other has saved a
lot of money by working as a chef for
10 years to open the restaurant they
need not only to renovate the
house but also to buy
kitchen equipment so they take a loan
from the bank initially their
gross equity is made up of the old
country house and the money saved
from it but they have to subtract the loan they
took from the bank to get
the net worth after finishing the
renovation work and the money
saved has decreased However the
value of the renovated country house
is  now higher which items make up the
net worth the net worth is
divided into different parts The first is the
share capital which is the money put in
by the person who founded the company or the
partners this sum is decided
at the beginning and can increase or decrease
based on company performance then
there are the reserves which are
basically money set
aside for emergencies Finally there is the
profit or loss part. This is the
result of the comparison between how much
the company earns revenue and how much it
spends on production costs  net
of the tax effect If the company
earns more than it spends
Then it is a profit it spends more than it
earns Then it is an
elementary loss when the value of the
assets is greater than that of the
liabilities the net worth will be
positive in the case  however, the value
of the assets is equal to that of the
liabilities, the net worth is equal to
zero The company has no sources of
self-financing and therefore can
take out loans to finance itself
when the value of the liabilities
exceeds that of the assets, the
net worth is negative and
we find ourselves in a situation of
capital deficit in these cases it is clear
that a financial crisis is affecting
the company which must therefore resort to its
own capital or reserves to
sustain itself If it is not possible to cover the
deficit the only way Beautiful
net equity liquidation  personal,
personal net worth is the measure of
a person's wealth, formally it is
like for companies it is calculated as
the difference between assets and liabilities
in practice we need to subtract what we
still have to pay between debts, taxes,
mortgages from the sum of the resources
we have available between
real estate and liquid savings and other
assets let's take an example I have to calculate
the net worth of a person who
has 30 thousand euros in the bank account
50 invested in an
investment portfolio a house bought thanks to a
mortgage and a car purchased with a
loan are considered  therefore the
bank account the
investment portfolio the market value of the
house and the car in the
assets section While in the liabilities
we insert the mortgage and the loan the
salary is not taken into
consideration in the calculation of the
net worth because the
net worth only counts  what we own and
what we owe to others At a certain
time and not in the expected cash flows,
Forbes, for example, publishes every
year the list of the richest people
in the world, taking into account their
net worth, many billionaires
hold a large part of their
wealth in shares  of the companies
they founded So when the value
of the shares rises their
net worth also rises when their
value falls Exactly their
net worth also falls which is why the
Forbes list is drawn up taking into account
an exact date or the current date
as  the positions may vary
from day to day the 37th list of the
richest men in the world sti Forbes
in 2023 has crowned Bernardo of the
luxury multinational lvmh Arnone has
an estimated wealth of 211 billion
dollars
in the last year the shares of his
group have seen  increase its
value by 18% bringing
53 billion dollars into the magnate's coffers the
previous year at the top was Elon Musk who
lost 39 billion dollars
mainly due to the purchase of
Twitter which forced him to sell 23
billion  of Tesla shares to obtain
sufficient liquidity its assets
are now estimated at 180 billion dollars which have
literally flown away conclusion
net worth is nothing other than
the set of assets from which we then subtract
the value of the debts Therefore it is a
central indicator for understanding  how
the accounts of a company and an
individual are, as well as getting an idea about
its future, is the heart of the
economic and financial state of health as it
represents the true assets, that is,
what one has and can
count on when  we need everything clear well
so the next video
[Music]